In this video, we're going to see how to find a basis for subspace of vector space.
So I have written down here a subspace of R^3 and I've produced it by a spanning set so we know W is spanned by.
These four vectors. Now unfortunately, we know these vectors are going to be linearly dependent.
In particular, we have too many of them to cram into R^3 and still have linear independence.
So we want to figure out which ones of these we can build out of the other ones and drop those from our set to make a basis.
So the way we'll do that is we'll go ahead and write down a matrix with these vectors as columns.
Negative six. Negative one, negative 19. And we'll compute the reduced row echelon form here.
So I've typed this in to Wolfram Alpha ahead of time for convenience.
This produces the vector one two sorry, one zero two three zero one negative one negative four and zero zero zero two.
Now, the key thing to note here is these last two columns are non-pivot columns. In particular,
that tells us we can build them out of the columns that came before.
So that third column we can produce by taking two of the first column and negative one of the second column and fourth one we can produce.
Taking three of the first column, add it to negative four times the second column.
So those ones are redundant vectors. We don't need them. We can build them out of those first two vectors.
So if we drop them out, we're going to still span the same subspace.
If we drop both of them out, the resulting set will be linearly independent.
So we'll write down those two vectors that correspond to our pivot columns--two one negative one.
And three one four. So this is a basis.
Now, the second part asks for the dimension of W and the dimension of a vector space is just the number of vectors in any basis.
So I have a basis that we just wrote down. It has two vectors in it.
And so therefore, the dimension of W is two.